README.md, before:

# PHPME

Make your PHP coding session more fun than ever.

This plugin developed based on [PHP Companion][4] plugin.

## Installation

### Package control

You can install this plugin easily with [Sublime Package Control][5].

Then there is two option:
- Search for PHPMe in package control, select install then you're ready.
- Add this plugin repository [https://github.com/eghojansu/phpme.git][2].
  (`Package Control: Add Repository` to insert repository url).

### Download Manually

Download tar/zip from [this plugin repository][1], extract them then put the extracted folder into your sublime package folder.

## Commands

All command prefixed by `phpme_`

### insert_namespace

Insert namespace on the current file. This feature use composer.json file (if exists) to guest namespace.
If there is no composer.json you can configure in your project/global setting. See settings below.

### use_class

Use/import class.

To use this feature you need to put cursor on valid class symbol then trigger this command.

(Support multiple selection).

### expand_fqcn

Expand class to Fully Qualified Name Space.

To use this feature you need to put cursor on valid class symbol then trigger this command.

(Support multiple selection).

### implements

Implements interface method.

To use this feature you need to implements your class with one or more interface. Trigger this command then pick one or more methods you wants to implement.

(Support parent tree).

### override_method

To use this feature you need to extends your class with parent class. Trigger this command then pick one or more methods you wants to override.

(Support parent tree).

### getter_setter

Generate getter and setter method based on properties on your class.
This command accept `mode` as argument and its value can be 1, 2 or 3.

    (1) generate getter;
    (2) generate setter and;
    (3) generate getter and setter.

To use this feature you do not need to put cursor on valid symbol, just trigger this command.

### generate_constructor

Generate class constructor. You can pick declared properties as its parameter.

To use this feature you do not need to put cursor on valid symbol, just trigger this command.

### goto_definition_scope

Search for a method definition based on the current scope. It will fallback to the "goto_definition" command if a match was not found.

To use this feature you need to put cursor on a method name, then trigger this command.

(Not support multiple cursor).

### project_meta

Generate project meta for current file. Template can be configured, see setting below.

To use this feature you do not need to put cursor on valid symbol, just trigger this command.

### copy_method

Copy selected class method definition.

To use this feature you need to put cursor on valid class symbol then trigger this command.

(Support multiple selection, classes from globals is not supported).

### generate_test_method

Generate test method for PHPUnit TestCase. It use test case name to generate proposed test method. Default guess is to match ```^(\w+)Test$```. Note that pattern should contain one parenthesis.

To use this feature you do not need to put cursor on valid symbol, just trigger this command.

(Classes from globals is not supported).

## Settings

Settings can be stored either in your system wide "PHPMe.sublime-settings" file or in the project
settings file. This allows you to set preferences per-project if you need to.

If you're storing settings in a project file, put them in a phpme node like this:

```
"phpme": {
    "exclude_dir": [
        "vendor",
        "build"
    ]
}
```

### native_hint

Should we include native hint too? eg: string, array bool etc.
Set to true will add native hint declared on your variable docblock as method parameter hint.

Example:
```php
class AClass
{
    /** @var string <- this will be used as parameter hint if you generate getter/setter */
    public $myProperty;

    /**
     * @var bool <- this will be used as parameter hint if you generate getter/setter
     */
    public $mySecondProperty;
}
```

### hint_default_null

Should we add ```$param = null``` on non-native parameter when generate method?

Type: bool

### namespaces
Namespace and relative path to current folder pairs, trailing slash/backslash are optional.
Relative path can be array. This configuration mimic composer.json autoload psr-4/psr-0 schema.

Type: json, examples:
```
"namespaces": {
     "App\\": "src/",
     "App\\Test\\": "tests/src/"
     "AnotherNamespace\\": ["other/", "other2/"]
}
```

### exclude_dir

List of directories to exclude when searching for the class declaration file.
Path is relative to the project directory.

Please note that the filtering is done after the search in the index. So this option has no impact on performance,
it's just a convenient way to avoid duplicate namespace declaration in some case.

Type: array of exclude dir pattern

### use_sort_length

When importing use statements with the `phpme_use_class` command, sort statements by the length of the line.

Type: boolean, defaults to false.

### allow_use_from_global_namespace

Set to true to allow plugin search class in globals namespace.
Need the php binary to work.

Type: boolean, defaults to true.

### docblock_inherit

Copy comment doc from parent or interface to implemented class.

Type: string, valid options are "none", "copy" or "inheritdoc" defaults to "none"

### prefix_fqcn

Set true, to add leading backslash when performing `phpme_expand_fqcn`.

Type: boolean, defaults to true.

### generate_docblock

Generate docblocks for getter, setter and constructor.

Type: boolean, defaults to false.

### setter_chainable

Make generated setter chainable (return $this).

Type: boolean, defaults to true.

### static_property

Keyword to use for static property.

Type: string, valid options are "static" or "self" defaults to "static"

### project_meta

Generate project meta template.
Available placeholder:
- project:

  Defaults to project name in composer.json (if available)

- type:

  Defaults to project type in composer.json (if available)

- author:

  First, read from composer.json, if not available get from git config,
  if not available get from current login user

- email:

  First, read from composer.json, if not available get from git config

- time:

  For time placeholder, you can add time format as parameter. (See this [link][6])

Type: string[], defaults to:
```json
{
    "project_meta": [
        "This file is part of the {project} {type}.",
        "",
        "(c) {author} <{email}>",
        "",
        "For the full copyright and license information, please view the LICENSE",
        "file that was distributed with this source code.",
        "",
        "Created at {time(%b %d, %Y %H:%I)}"
    ]
}
```

### test_case_pattern

How to get test case class.

Type: string, defaults to: ```^(\w+)Test$```

### test_public_only

Include public method only.

Type: boolean, defaults to: true

### test_generate_content

Generate sample method content.

Type: boolean, defaults to: true

### log_message

Log status message

Type: boolean, defaults to: false


## Keybinding

This plugin do not provide keybindings. You will have to install your own shortcuts. This examples will give you the shortcuts I personally use.

```json
[
    { "keys": ["f3"], "command": "phpme_implements" },
    { "keys": ["shift+f3"], "command": "phpme_override_method" },
    { "keys": ["f4"], "command": "phpme_insert_namespace" },
    { "keys": ["f5"], "command": "phpme_use_class" },
    { "keys": ["f6"], "command": "phpme_expand_fqcn" },
    { "keys": ["f7"], "command": "phpme_generate_constructor" },
    { "keys": ["f8"], "command": "phpme_getter_setter", "args": {"mode": 3} },
    { "keys": ["shift+f12"], "command": "phpme_goto_definition_scope" }
]
```

## Known Issues

- This plugin works based on Regex. If you feel this plugin sucks detecting your code, please let me know.

  [Submit issues][3].
- We do not support multiple class declaration in one file. As we use regex to detect curly brace (`}`) as the end of class.


```sh
Happy coding,

ekokurniawan
(Web Developer)
```

[1]: https://github.com/eghojansu/phpme
[2]: https://github.com/eghojansu/phpme.git
[3]: https://github.com/eghojansu/phpme/issues
[4]: https://packagecontrol.io/packages/PHP%20Companion
[5]: https://packagecontrol.io/installation
[6]: https://docs.python.org/2/library/datetime.html#strftime-and-strptime-behavior

Commit message:

Add support for declare strict
- Add default visibility method
- Add declare_strict option
- Remove prefix_fqcn option
- Rename Expand Fully Qualified Namespace Class to Expand FQCN
- Add Expand FQCN (w/ Leading Backslash)
- Edit insert namespace now can be done without opening php tag

README.md, after:

# PHPME

Make your PHP coding session more fun than ever.

This plugin developed based on [PHP Companion][4] plugin, but works differently.

## Installation

### Package control

You can install this plugin easily with [Sublime Package Control][5].

Then there is two option:
- ~~Search for PHPMe in package control, select install then you're ready.~~
- Add this plugin repository [https://github.com/eghojansu/phpme.git][2].
  (`Package Control: Add Repository` to insert repository url).

> Currently this package was not accepted by Sublime Package [#6793][7]

### Download Manually

Download tar/zip from [this plugin repository][1], extract them then put the extracted folder into your sublime package folder.

## Commands

All command prefixed by `phpme_`

### insert_namespace

Insert namespace on the current file. This feature use composer.json file (if exists) to guest namespace.
If there is no composer.json you can configure in your project/global setting. See settings below.

### use_class

Use/import class.

To use this feature you need to put cursor on valid class symbol then trigger this command.

(Support multiple selection).

### expand_fqcn

Expand class to Fully Qualified Name Space.

To use this feature you need to put cursor on valid class symbol then trigger this command.

(Support multiple selection).

### implements

Implements interface method.

To use this feature you need to implements your class with one or more interface. Trigger this command then pick one or more methods you wants to implement.

(Support parent tree).

### override_method

To use this feature you need to extends your class with parent class. Trigger this command then pick one or more methods you wants to override.

(Support parent tree).

### getter_setter

Generate getter and setter method based on properties on your class.
This command accept `mode` as argument and its value can be 1, 2 or 3.

    (1) generate getter;
    (2) generate setter and;
    (3) generate getter and setter.

To use this feature you do not need to put cursor on valid symbol, just trigger this command.

### generate_constructor

Generate class constructor. You can pick declared properties as its parameter.

To use this feature you do not need to put cursor on valid symbol, just trigger this command.

### goto_definition_scope

Search for a method definition based on the current scope. It will fallback to the "goto_definition" command if a match was not found.

To use this feature you need to put cursor on a method name, then trigger this command.

(Not support multiple cursor).

### project_meta

Generate project meta for current file. Template can be configured, see setting below.

To use this feature you do not need to put cursor on valid symbol, just trigger this command.

### copy_method

Copy selected class method definition.

To use this feature you need to put cursor on valid class symbol then trigger this command.

(Support multiple selection, classes from globals is not supported).

### generate_test_method

Generate test method for PHPUnit TestCase. It use test case name to generate proposed test method. Default guess is to match ```^(\w+)Test$```. Note that pattern should contain one parenthesis.

To use this feature you do not need to put cursor on valid symbol, just trigger this command.

(Classes from globals is not supported).

## Settings

Settings can be stored either in your system wide "PHPMe.sublime-settings" file or in the project
settings file. This allows you to set preferences per-project if you need to.

If you're storing settings in a project file, put them in a phpme node like this:

```
"phpme": {
    "exclude_dir": [
        "vendor",
        "build"
    ]
}
```

### native_hint

Should we include native hint too? eg: string, array bool etc.
Set to true will add native hint declared on your variable docblock as method parameter hint.

Example:
```php
class AClass
{
    /** @var string <- this will be used as parameter hint if you generate getter/setter */
    public $myProperty;

    /**
     * @var bool <- this will be used as parameter hint if you generate getter/setter
     */
    public $mySecondProperty;
}
```

### hint_default_null

Should we add ```$param = null``` on non-native parameter when generate method?

Type: bool

### namespaces
Namespace and relative path to current folder pairs, trailing slash/backslash are optional.
Relative path can be array. This configuration mimic composer.json autoload psr-4/psr-0 schema.

Type: json, examples:
```
"namespaces": {
     "App\\": "src/",
     "App\\Test\\": "tests/src/"
     "AnotherNamespace\\": ["other/", "other2/"]
}
```

### exclude_dir

List of directories to exclude when searching for the class declaration file.
Path is relative to the project directory.

Please note that the filtering is done after the search in the index. So this option has no impact on performance,
it's just a convenient way to avoid duplicate namespace declaration in some case.

Type: array of exclude dir pattern

### use_sort_length

When importing use statements with the `phpme_use_class` command, sort statements by the length of the line.

Type: boolean, defaults to false.

### allow_use_from_global_namespace

Set to true to allow plugin search class in globals namespace.
Need the php binary to work.

Type: boolean, defaults to true.

### docblock_inherit

Copy comment doc from parent or interface to implemented class.

Type: string, valid options are "none", "copy" or "inheritdoc" defaults to "none"

### generate_docblock

Generate docblocks for getter, setter and constructor.

Type: boolean, defaults to false.

### setter_chainable

Make generated setter chainable (return $this).

Type: boolean, defaults to true.

### static_property

Keyword to use for static property.

Type: string, valid options are "static" or "self" defaults to "static"

### project_meta

Generate project meta template.
Available placeholder:
- project:

  Defaults to project name in composer.json (if available)

- type:

  Defaults to project type in composer.json (if available)

- author:

  First, read from composer.json, if not available get from git config,
  if not available get from current login user

- email:

  First, read from composer.json, if not available get from git config

- time:

  For time placeholder, you can add time format as parameter. (See this [link][6])

Type: string[], defaults to:
```json
{
    "project_meta": [
        "This file is part of the {project} {type}.",
        "",
        "(c) {author} <{email}>",
        "",
        "For the full copyright and license information, please view the LICENSE",
        "file that was distributed with this source code.",
        "",
        "Created at {time(%b %d, %Y %H:%I)}"
    ]
}
```

### test_case_pattern

How to get test case class.

Type: string, defaults to: ```^(\w+)Test$```

### test_public_only

Include public method only.

Type: boolean, defaults to: true

### test_generate_content

Generate sample method content.

Type: boolean, defaults to: true

### log_message

Log status message

Type: boolean, defaults to: false

### declare_strict

Declare strict, this will append strict delcaration on first opening php tag
_when inserting namespace_

Type: boolean, defaults to: false


## Keybinding

This plugin do not provide keybindings. You will have to install your own shortcuts. This examples will give you the shortcuts I personally use.

```json
[
    { "keys": ["f3"], "command": "phpme_implements" },
    { "keys": ["shift+f3"], "command": "phpme_override_method" },
    { "keys": ["f4"], "command": "phpme_insert_namespace" },
    { "keys": ["f5"], "command": "phpme_use_class" },
    { "keys": ["f6"], "command": "phpme_expand_fqcn" },
    { "keys": ["f7"], "command": "phpme_generate_constructor" },
    { "keys": ["f8"], "command": "phpme_getter_setter", "args": {"mode": 3} },
    { "keys": ["shift+f12"], "command": "phpme_goto_definition_scope" }
]
```

## Known Issues

- This plugin works based on Regex. If you feel this plugin sucks detecting your code, please let me know.

  [Submit issues][3].


```sh
Happy coding,

ekokurniawan
(Web Developer)
```

[1]: https://github.com/eghojansu/phpme
[2]: https://github.com/eghojansu/phpme.git
[3]: https://github.com/eghojansu/phpme/issues
[4]: https://packagecontrol.io/packages/PHP%20Companion
[5]: https://packagecontrol.io/installation
[6]: https://docs.python.org/2/library/datetime.html#strftime-and-strptime-behavior
[7]: https://github.com/wbond/package_control_channel/pull/6793
